I was obsessed with the fact that I was
gonna die young I wanted to hurt people
the way I was hurt some of the things
that go through my head scared me
nice I got 21 seconds to go
top boys are in the building growing up
had a lot of trauma and it made me angry
with the world my dad was in prison you
know so much childhood the local bad
boys they became dead to me and I
started to follow in their footsteps I'm
still paying the price for those years
now but once I get in front of a camera
it's not that Ashley anymore top boy top
boy top boy the greatest show that's
ever come out of the UK let him up it's
crazy you know it changed my life but
filming the last season me and Kane we
didn't have the greatest time people
don't understand we go hard for that
show we go hard to make sure characters
are being represented in the way they
should be and we Face a lot of
resistance how
the truth is
2005. you had rekindled your
relationship with your father yeah
and then he died man I never realized
it would affect me that much took me to
some Dark Places making decisions that
[Music]
were gonna come back to haunt me you
know
um
yeah man I want to break down now just
talking about
[Music]
Ashley I've got an interesting
observation that I wanted to start with
i the way you speak the way you've been
chatting to me before we started rolling
it
almost reminds me of someone who has
had a bit of therapy
or has done some work on understanding
the unobvious subconscious forces that
are at play in their life and what
you've had to delve into because I think
as is often the case in this podcast I
think our like earliest context shapes
us in a profound way and it's something
that's quite hard to unshape ourselves
with undo as we become adults so what is
that early context that you've um you've
had to reflect on to understand yourself
ah man so where do I start
um so much I mean look I I I
first of all I've had a lot of therapy
right so I've been in a lot of
situations where
I've been canceled you know I've I've
um
sought help
because I needed it right
um
had a lot of trauma I guess that that
has kind of stuck with me over my life
and I think one of the biggest things
for me was
um my dad really that's why I stem back
to like growing up
um just not having a father figure
around
um and the places that push me to and
don't get me wrong like a lot of people
have gone through that
and come out the other side and not been
like me but I dealt with it in like a
really
crazy sort of way you know it made me
angry
made me angry with the world so all
throughout my you know my soul solid
years and my early kind of acting years
um my attitude towards life and towards
other people was very I mean it was
wrong you know it was quite negative
and I wanted to hurt people
the way I was hurt
and sometimes I did you know sometimes I
did it came out in a lot of different
ways some of the people I cared about
some of the people were close to me and
some people I didn't know random people
but
got me into a lot of trouble with the
police
yeah you know I just didn't care about
myself as a team growing up so and look
I had some amazing supportive people
around me like my mum is amazing I've
got an amazing family but that one
niggling thing of kind of being slightly
lost about what a man is
um not feeling like I fit in
rooms with other men you know in groups
of people and stuff like that just like
having this niggling doubt about myself
all the time
um made me quite a difficult person to
be around
um growing up and trying to explore that
so yeah when I and I didn't know it was
that's why at the time I didn't know I
had anything to do with
you know not having my dad around like
my dad when he was around
you know he was in prison most of my my
childhood growing up that was like
France he used to say he was in France
so to me and my younger brothers like
any time
you know my mom would be like he's in
France or someone would say he's in
France or whatever that was like code
for prison didn't know at the time
something I learned later on but it was
he was in France a lot of times so you
know I mean it was like
um so there was a few phone
conversations and stuff like that with
him but never had him there and then
when he would turn up he would just turn
up randomly at my at my house and stuff
and one thing I always remember is that
I always wanted to go with him right
because he was a superhero to me you
know I didn't care as much as the other
adults cared about the fact that he was
you know in and out of my life and what
damage that was doing to me and stuff
like that I was just like I want to see
my dad everyone else has got a dad
why haven't I got a dad you know I want
to know my dad so
I'll give my mom a little credit because
she would never bad mouth him in front
of me even though I know that she wanted
to and
she would always give me the option so
anytime he would come she was like would
you like to go
and I would obviously go and then I'd
come back crying because something had
happened you know like one of the
you know my dad drank a lot I remember
one time he took me to a party he was
like a family party he was like after a
christening or something like that
um
and he was he got so drunk and they
threw him out he had a fight with
someone in the party and he was he got
thrown up
and I remember having to like oh you
know maybe like 10 11 tops having to
carry him home
literally down the street like carry
this guy home
um to to my Grands to his mums you know
being chased by the police in the car
you know
him pushing my head down in the back I
just remember that image of him going
like look keep your head down and stuff
like that and he was getting chased by
police and I laugh about it now it's
more on an easy laugh this happened this
is not me being like proud of any of
this it's just those were my images
those are my images and memories of like
being with my dad but without fail my
mom said you want to go back
I'll go back you know I wanted a dad he
weren't the best dad you know but I
wanted someone there and kind of
eventually when I realized when I got a
bit older and I was kind of angry with
him for how he treated me it became
I'm gonna find other
figures other Dead figures other role
models in my community
um so the you know the local Bad Boys
the local dealers
they became
that's to me you know and I started to
to follow in their footsteps a bit you
know what I mean and adopt the same
attitude adopt the same Swagger
um you know I think even joining Soul
solid was
was never about music for me in the
beginning it was about belonging it was
about like it was the first time
you know I was part of a gang and there
was a lot of older men in there in that
group that looked after me and I took
care of me and seemingly at the time
loved me you know what I'm saying as
much as you know as far as I was
concerned so
I spent a lot of years bouncing around
like that the the funny thing is about
it is I was having success throughout
this this you know throughout this
process like
making films and successful TV shows and
music and stuff like that like
so I guess that I had Talent you know I
had a gift
that was shining through but
um
learning how to be a man
I didn't I didn't get I didn't know you
know I thought that was aggression I
thought that was
don't take no from anyone you know
what I mean don't cry don't take no
be hard
you know try and stand up for yourself
but emotionally I was incapable of the
other stuff that really
builds the real picture of what a man is
where does the anger come from in that
situation of like abandonment meeting a
father the father not meeting the
expectation that you want him to be
you're I often hear it with um kids like
you're desperate for your father to like
be a father and you you repeatedly give
them another chance to be that person
and they continue to let you down over
and over and over again and it's funny
because I've sat here with like child
psychologists and gabo mate and all of
these Geniuses that study children at a
young age and
um it's funny how the one thing that
Gabel said to me who's maybe like the
number one child
psychologist in the world said to me he
was like children in any context think
everything's about them they're
narcissists so if the parents were
arguing they interpret that as something
about them and if they so even in the
context of what you've described your
father's Behavior there
you almost
he's got his own problem clearly but you
interpret it as meaning something about
you of course yeah and do you unders
have you been able to understand what
the interpretation was how you
interpreted that situation
um
and I think not in not in that much
detail but I guess
you know surface wise that that I wasn't
good enough you know I can only say that
because of how I've treated myself
um
because I never I generally generally I
never think
I'm good enough
to be doing
anything that I'm doing you know I
always feel like there's always like a
sly little bit of meanness like they're
gonna catch me out next week like I'm I
shouldn't have this opportunity you know
I always pla I'm always going to make
the most of it I'm always going to prove
to people that I'm good enough to be
here but I'm always there's always that
niggling doubt of what the other
person's thinking about me you know and
um
and that's something that I'm still
working on today I'm still working on
the whole process of understanding like
um you know someone else's opinion of me
is none of my business you know what I'm
saying like and just accepting that you
know going into a room and if I see
people talking in the corner wondering
are they talking about me you know
having those like that sort of thought
process is tough but I think it stems
from
um rejection
I think it stems from you know being
abandoned slowly I mean I hate to use
that word but because you know my mom my
mum will be
upset about me using that terminology
bro because she never understood and
bless her you know actually my mom's a
very intelligent woman but one thing she
couldn't understand emotionally was the
fact that I still wanted him you know
and even you know up until he died and
after he died there was loads of moments
where
I was broken
and she would she was just like what is
wrong with you like why you know you
didn't really know him like that like
why are you you know she just didn't get
that
yeah I just wanted him to be proud you
know if anything you know I'd just love
him to see me now I'd love him to
understand like
who have become what I've achieved I
think in the beginning that was more
about
that was like a stick your finger up
sort of thing like even without you
I did great you know
um but the reality is like the last
encounter I had with him was the most
beautiful encounter
um ever you know maybe I've ever had
with any person that I love like and
he said some things to me that really
have stuck with me you know really I
changed my life going forward but
you know he didn't he didn't care
he was like and I mean he cared about me
but he didn't care about the stuff that
I was doing he was like that's
meaningless it's like
you know all of that can be taken away
at any time you know I'm glad you've Got
Talent I'm glad you feel fulfilled in
like what you're trying to achieve in
life when your life goes on that but
I wouldn't care if you did that or you
didn't it'd still be my son and I'd
still love you as much as I do and
he was always concerned about my fight
my fight for perfection
because I spend a lot of time like
trying to dig deep to make things
perfect right and
it's only now I know that nothing
nothing can be perfect there's no such
thing you know
and I think I eventually understood like
you know it's not always gonna go
my way right I have to be slightly more
willing to
to adapt and to accept that
um and when I have been
more willing to accept it
um
good things have happened you know I
gotta be open to it
he passed away in 2005 right yeah yeah
and by that time
you would
sort of rekindled your relationship to
some degree I when I was reading through
I think it's so solid
um page 12 you referred to him at that
time as a waste of space
which I guess was a reflection of how
you were feeling about him at that time
yeah I mean it's so funny you bring that
book up because
[Music]
I don't even I won't even read that book
really I don't even think I've ever read
it if I'm honest review and I mean yeah
I mean there's not that much to read if
I'm honest it's a lot of pictures but
um but yeah probably that's I mean
that's how I felt for a lot of the time
I think those last two weeks
when I was in I was shooting Get Rich or
Die try and I was in Canada he forced
his way out
to come and see me because
you know he knew how I felt about him
and he knew he only had weeks left to
live and he was like look I have to have
to come and see you
and he came and he lived with me for
those like two weeks
and I was already in the process of like
so I had this thing back then that I was
gonna die when I was like 33 I'd been
I've been something that I said to my
mum from a young age and she was like
randomly one day at like six seven he
was like you're gonna die at 33 or
whatever
and she's like I don't know where you
got that from but you've been obsessed
with that
and as an adult I was obsessed with the
fact that I was gonna die young right I
wasn't going to survive past that age
so I got someone to start filming me
every day and I got a friend to just
start documenting my like daily life on
camera
and
when I went to Canada to shoot I took
the camera with me and just said look
I'll get some like some footage myself
um when you're not while you're not here
my dad came and I just decided to turn
the camera on
so I did so every night you know while
he was there he was like you know go and
get me some weed this guy had lung
cancer and could hardly breathe he's
like I'm gonna be some weed and you know
I'll get him some drink and stuff like
that and we'll be sitting there for
hours like
for hours and hours and I just put the
camera down on the table and that and
just filming and just ask him the most
random questions just about life like
um you know where was you
where was he at this time where was you
that time whatever
and the guy was like
for context when I was in prison I was
in prison in like 2001 right and he
wrote to me a few times and it was the
first time I understood that my dad was
illiterate like he couldn't read or
write
so these letters were so like it's just
up man it was just like I was
like I had no idea that he had that
issue
and I read these letters I was like wow
so that
gave me another level to my hate for him
it was like
now you're dumb as well like yeah do you
know what I mean it was like
yeah I really don't like it like I don't
know so it was evil but it was just
another excuse for me not to like him
right
um
so cut back to being in Canada
he um
I sat down with him and filmed them
and found out that he was one of the
most intelligent people I know
just from being Street wise just from
life experience to get on saying like it
it actually burnt me because I didn't
want him to know anything I didn't want
him to have anything to really offer me
in the end when I delved deeper into who
he was as a person but all the things I
was going through with women with life
with you know what I mean it was like he
had a wealth of knowledge that he could
speak to me about he couldn't write it
down couldn't really articulate it
in the greatest way but just listening
to his kind of anecdotal sort of stories
and whatever
I got what I needed to get from it and I
filmed him kind of going through it
um
but there was also like a huge fear as
well you know I realized in that moment
that
he had he had genuine excuses for being
the person he was I mean he grew up he
didn't have the greatest upbringing you
know he was in care
he was slightly neglected by his own
parents you know and
you know he was the bad kid of the bunch
and he just kind of got pushed out and
that kind of led to his life and things
happened etc etc but I understood it
from his point of view when I heard him
talk about it and I was like actually
okay I can see why you would be the
person that you are and actually maybe
you did me a favor by not being there
too much because who would I be you know
would I be the person I am today and
um but then you know after realizing I
love this guy and I'm enjoying spending
time with him and we were like good
friends and we went to clubs to give her
out there this guy's like
you know thin
like way for Finn like on death's
doorstep
and he was making the effort to come out
with me and you know Rave and do all of
this stuff
and um
but at night
at bedtime I slayed in my bed awake
every night just staring at the ceiling
thinking he's gonna die here because
he was just coughing all through the
night man it was like you know like he
was coughing up his lungs like
I was like what
I was praying that it didn't happen you
know there
um
and then he died man he'd like you know
he left
left literally got off the plane
they rushed him to hospital because he's
he was going on the plane rushing to
hospital he died
um whilst I was filming and
you know it wasn't the best way that I
found out
um
I was filming at the time I was doing a
scene with 50.
and it was like a really emotional scene
um
outside on location
and
the vibe just changed on set like
you know in between takes everyone
stopped talking and it was quiet it was
like this and like
The Producers were just like looking at
me
and I was like nah I knew
do you know me something had happened I
knew something was wrong
and they was like look we're gonna take
a break just
go and call home
you need to call home actually
so I went to my train line called my
partner at the time and she was like
sorry man
I mean he's gone so I was
tough it was tough it was tough moment
this tough moment
um
yeah and I was I was broken
I was broken I never realized
it would affect me that much
broke me
and um
crazy but the one thing I remember from
that moment is I went to my trailer I
broke down some of the actors came like
Troy Bryant she came in and she was just
like just hugged me and I was just
crying and stuff
and 50 came in and was
he won't remember this and I know it
wasn't malice or is there any bad
intentions but he was like
I'm sorry to hear about your dad
and it just started talking about a
scene to someone you know when someone's
like sorry to hear about your dad man
anyway
um whatever and I was like
you know talking to him after is like
he's been through some
some you know that's made them
really like
um I hadn't been through anything like
that
you know at that point that was my first
real
kind of close encounter with
death
like and
having someone that meant so much to me
and pass away
um but my first instinct was you know to
work to continue working I continued
working
I flew back for the funeral
for literally one day
did the funeral and then I left I went
back to work
um
I just plowed through and I didn't
grieve
and I haven't
you haven't I don't think I have you
know I don't
I don't know what you call it because
even like now I want to break down now
just talking about I don't know it's
just like
2005 right it's like 18 years or
whatever so I mean is that an indication
that I haven't
dealt with it enough
yeah I don't know
the feelings you have towards his his
loss are they are they complicated
are they because are there unanswered
conversations are there is there is
there any regrets in there is there what
are what were those feelings because
your mother as you said is was surprised
by your reaction to his loss
from him dying I lost
I went off the rails a bit
you know I went off the rails a bit when
the sense of
my ego took over and I lost
any
sort of spiritual
connection that I had with
life or the universe up until that point
you know I'm I'm never been the most
religious person but I've always been a
believer in
in like the universal law right like in
in if I give I will get
you know in there in the in a way that
things are meant to be you know anything
that's
happened in my life
has been
manifested in some sort of way you know
when I wanted to be in so solid I knew
who so solid were before they knew who I
was you know and I was I made a I looked
in the mirror one day and said I'm going
to be in that group you know and that
was
I was a little boy on the streets
working out ways to
to be and the universe can constantly
bring in people around my situation
that was connected to that situation
that was Bridging the Gap for me you
know so I I only had to be I only had to
you know focus and believe or whatever
so I believe in all that all that stuff
but when it comes to when my dad passed
I like I lost a lot of that
those beliefs I lost a lot of that
understanding and I became slightly like
yeah just lost you know lost I was
you know I drank more I you know I I did
I cared less about myself
about where I was going and about you
know what I wanted in life and stuff and
um
yeah that led me on a on a different
a different sort of Journey you know
um
took me to some dark places if I'm
honest Dark Places
yeah man just like
like definitely not making
decisions purposely making decisions in
life that
we're gonna come back to haunt me you
know
um
they'll come in a big thing for me was
like
my relationship at the time
um
I gave up on you know I gave up on it
I became quite like promiscuous
you know I abused the the
celebrity that I had you know like I I
gave into the the Temptation that was
around me a lot more
um
you know and I really hurt my my first
partner
um by being that person and actually
that resulted in
in me having two kids out of my
relationship you know so two of my
children
who I love daily
um
you know came from from that situation
but I think that was like a big part of
my like
you know my reckless sort of rebellious
sort of attitude and I I mean the only
way I can put it is that I I became I
came before everyone at that point you
know me and my ego and like the world
revolved around me and I think before
that point even though I did have
moments of being quite Wayward and
whatever I was still
um
caring loving Ashley you know
that's how I that's how I grew up
um
but yeah I definitely came out of my box
from that point on
um and I I guess to me at the time it
was like
you only live once
you know I don't fear anyone whatever
happens happens it was that whole thing
that was going on but
um
I'm still still paying the price for
those
those years now
I think this is fascinating I looked at
the back end of our YouTube channel and
it says that since this channel started
69.9 percent of you that watch it
frequently haven't yet hit the Subscribe
button so I have a favor to ask you if
you've ever watched this Channel and
enjoyed the content if you're enjoying
this episode right now please can I ask
a small favor please hit the Subscribe
button helps this channel more than I
can explain and I promise if you do that
to return the favor we will make this
show better and better and better and
better and better that's the promise I'm
willing to make you if you hit the
Subscribe button do we have a deal
those tapes
um have you still got them
it's another upsetting story man like
so I set up a production company me and
a good friend of mine at the time
but
I was a nightmare to deal with you know
this the demons
were there and I've I don't I didn't
give a hundred percent
into this company at all so like a lot
of the weight was left on them
to kind of hold it up and then I think
this person this guy was going through
his own
troubles as well at the time with his
dad and his family and stuff so
you know it was a disaster in the end
but
either way you know we had an archive of
footage that we created from filming
that we never knew what was going to use
it for but all the stuff I filmed
my dad went into this archive
um and when the company actually was
dissolved and
you know we kind of fell out at that
point
he took all the tapes and the footage
and for how many years now I've been
asking to get it back because we don't
speak you know but for maybe 10 years
now I've been trying to send messages
through people I know know him and stuff
like that and I've just had no response
you know and the last thing I want to do
is
go into some legal sort of
battle for it or whatever but
it's the last you know the other stuff I
can let go but the stuff with my dad
like it's the last
things I've got I don't have pictures of
him you know I know I don't have like
family portraits and anything like that
all I really have is those those tapes
and they're like
they're like my um
do you know that movie um things to do
in Denver when you're dead yeah
they're like you know it's like that to
me it's like gold dust it's like
I can I could probably watch those tips
and it could probably help me through a
lot of tough times that I face now or
maybe even my kids you know maybe even
um help the boys somehow so
it'd be nice to get them back it's it's
really sad it's like it's hurtful man
and uh and I hope one day I can resolve
that situation
do you even know if that person still
has them
do you know what I mean I could be
sitting there with the you know thinking
that he has them but he might not I'm
pretty sure he does pretty sure
that last two weeks with your father
before he passed away
um my first question is did you did you
know he was going to pass away soon
and um
what did you take from that those two
weeks of sitting with him and asking
what is the what did you walk away with
that you didn't have in that moment you
knew he was much more intelligent than
you ever knew but the the lessons you
speak of that you've have stayed with
you ever since and that have seemingly
guided you
what were those lessons I knew he was
going to pass away
um
I hadn't accepted it yeah you know but
it was obvious that he was going to die
right it was obvious
um
lessons
um I think is I got from it what I what
I
one of the key things I needed and I
think one of the key things you need
from
knowing your dad is
knowing where you come from
I think that's such a it's just such a
key point in
being a dad like if my son can look at
me I can look at my son and kind of
he knows who I am he knows where I came
from he knows what my values are you
know what I expect of him and stuff like
that then I think it makes him easier
for him going out there to be just a
person to be a human being when you are
when you're constantly looking for that
reference point right
you're lost you know and and
when I spent those two weeks with him I
kind of got a better understanding of oh
okay this is why I
do that funny thing with my eye when you
don't mean I'm lying or this is why I
feel this way at this point and
you know he was powerful as a man he
didn't have anything
didn't have anything but
he used some sort of confidence and
charm right that
you can't buy like you know what I mean
um
and I felt that and I saw that in him
and it made me understand about
I should feel more like that by myself
do you know what I mean
I should feel more
powerful look you don't have to be a
you know when you're
you know when you're confident
doesn't have to come across that way
but he had he had that like that level
of confidence with like a
some beautiful sort of humility
that went with it but you know
and that was my dad that was my dad's so
it made me know that I can be that
person you know
that I don't need to doubt myself as
much as I do
um and he Stripped Away From Me He
constantly in that little time I spent
with me Stripped Away all the because I
was like hiding myself
in success
I've got this I've got this watch I've
got this car this Co and staying in this
apartment and this and that or whatever
and he didn't give a about any of
that
and I don't know whether he was doing it
on purpose but he genuinely was like
well I mean it's it's good I mean but
and he he
knew a lot more about me than
and thought he did
so
he'd paid attention
somehow
um
but I walked away from that
meeting that encounter knowing
that he loved me
and knowing that he was proud of me you
know he was proud
um
and that was good enough
what would you say to him if he was
listening now
um
I think I I didn't tell him
thank you
no I I hope he didn't get on that plane
feeling like
in a feeling that I was still unhappy
with him
because I treated him quite bad you know
especially when I mean when he was going
through his cancer when he told me he
had cancer I was like
whatever like I don't even believe you
you're probably just saying it for me
because you want me to talk to you yeah
that's how I that was my attitude
towards towards him in that period of
time that's how much anger I was holding
so
you know I let go of a lot of that
whilst we was together
but
I do wonder if there was any doubt in
his mind when he left you know because I
couldn't you know it's not like I was
like you know all over him and touchy
feely and kissing him and you know
rubbing him and stroking him and stuff I
still kept a bit of a
you know a toughness about it like I'm
not gonna let you in like that you know
but I do
I do hope
that he could read between the lines and
know that
I'd
softened slightly and like let him in a
bit
if you can see all the success you've
had now what do you reckon you'd think
all that you've done
it'd probably try and tell me like you
know
it'd be like you're not doing this right
you're not doing that right you could
improve in this area in that area and
whatever but uh probably butt heads
about it but you know that'd be all good
I I take that now in hindsight you know
I mean I'd take it you're trying to be
your dad I mean that's it yeah yeah
that's it mines do the same yeah
yeah some I I do Envy some of my
friends that I know like I've got really
good relationships with their dads and
dads have looked over their contracts
and
stuff like that you know I mean I've
been a major part of their life
you know I'm determined to do that for
my my kids if they ever need it in
hindsight though we we look at the some
of the most difficult things we've been
through and overcome and we understand
the correlation that has with
the better things about us all the
things that we're proud of like there's
often a surprising link between the
worst thing that's happened to us or the
worst trauma we've had and the best
thing that's happened to us and as I was
listening to all of that you know you
use this word talent at the very
beginning you said I must have had just
had a talent
but
I'm not necessarily sure what you mean
by talent because
um you grew up with an ability to have
um that talent in multiple areas you
were you had it in music you had it
acting in a very young age and there's
part of me that Wonders that you know
about the link of the things that you
went through in the circumstances you
were in and how that left you with this
trait you described as not quite ever
think in your work or you were good
enough how that actually all played into
your drive and ambition
to go that extra mile to work that extra
hour to spend an extra hour in the
editing studio and I often see in people
that when they have that feeling of like
some call it imposter syndrome I don't
like the term that they actually produce
better work because they end up becoming
the perfectionist that you your father
told you not to be so it's interesting
that there's a correlation there and
um well if I asked you
know because I was looking at this and
you start acting super young I'm
wondering how it's possible that at 15
years old you are not only joining one
of the most successful groups at the
time in so solid crew but you're also
acting on the BBC 15 16 7 17 years old
you're doing two things that most people
never I mean if if one person had just
been in so solid crew that would be a
success they would be a success but for
you to be doing both things at the same
time what have I missed here like what
is it about you that
um your character traits your philosophy
your mindset that you think has really
guided you through that process I'm
gonna I'm gonna struggle to really to
answer this Stephen if in all honesty
because
kind of involves
like um
it kind of involves digging myself up
a bit more than I'm comfortable with if
I'm honest
um
but
since we're here yeah another joke
um now I think it's more
look I don't I don't
I believe there's that some of that
charm that we spoke about that I saw in
my dad
I I know I have in me right so I have
the I had that ability I know how to
talk to people right I know if I kind of
if I get into a situation like this with
me and you like I can make people like
me you know what I mean
it's a little thing that I've got
um
and I try and
bring that out in the characters that I
play on the screen
um I think I always bring a bit of
myself
to the roles I play so as much as I'm
hiding behind these characters or
whatever
the engine room is Ashley
and if I can find ways
to
use my trauma to portray this I do
I think
outside of the ring when I say ring I'm
in the acting space
I'm humble you know I don't brag
keep it simple
and I treat people as good as I can you
know what I mean and I give back a lot
you know I'm always about like
trying to help other people
it's always been a part of me so I think
that's helped move me forward and I
think especially in in like within the
black community
you know where I was one of the first to
kind of break through when there was
only a few black faces on screens and a
lot of black people that are you know
maybe in their 40s now have grown up
watching me
um that's the Ashley that they know
you know I think I'm never
I've always been quite accessible
um
I've never like turned my back
on
you know where I came from you know for
some reason in some way I've managed to
stay in that place where it's like
oh it's Ash yeah yeah you know what I
mean I'm like
um you ever lost sight of yourself yes
like
people are comfortable around me this is
why I like still to this day you know a
lot of people are like
bro why are you just walking down the
street or why are you just on the train
or why are you just sitting in this like
because I can because people don't
really
you know they don't really want to like
I don't have the
you know I mean the Justin Bieber effect
on people like you don't have to shut
down stores or whatever when I come in
like people look and stuff like that but
it's like I just feel like they've got
they used to me yeah yeah you know what
I mean and I think like I mean I'll
straighten off point a bit but I think
like all of this
as part of my character as part of my
personality ties into what I've been
working for so long you know why I've
managed to maintain relationships in the
industry and
um why I have a solid
like fan base you know solid base of
supporters that will show up
to my shows to watch my films or watch
do you know what I mean why it makes us
to invest in me yeah it makes it and we
often don't think about the role that
people skills will play over a long
period of time but it's like a force
that's either it's like an invisible
force like your reputation in terms of
how you've shown up for people that will
um when you zoom out
we'll catch up with you either way For
Better or For Worse you know what I mean
yeah that's it let's call it like
invisible PR it's like what how you've
treated people along the way well and
people don't often focus on that because
there's other things they might try and
focus on but that Force that's kind of
just
making sure people call you when there's
the opportunity or they recommend you in
a room you're not in and that all comes
down to everything you've just said
there if I'm honest reviews help me so
much in the sense of I've made mistakes
along the way
you know I've made mistakes
that I've not necessarily been public
mistakes I'm I've never say that I'm a
perfect person
but when I have made those mistakes
people that have known me have supported
me
you know what I mean so because
you know I've been good I've been good
to people like so
um
you know when we live in a world today
where
you know any minute people can turn
their back on you any minute people can
you know cancel you or whatever they
want to call it and and that happens day
in and day out
um
so you know I feel like I feel really
proud of the fact that
I've been as genuine
as I can be
coming up if I was one of your kids then
and I come to you and I say Dad listen I
want to be an actor
no
well no I couldn't I couldn't I mean I
couldn't tell them no but I I would be
worried why
it's just hard it's it's a hard
industry to crack yeah but you did it
Dad yeah I did it but I don't know how
I'm yet to know what the blueprint is
it's tough you know my students at
Kingdom asked me this all is all the
time and I'm like all I can teach you is
like how to prepare
how it's going to happen when it's gonna
happen or whatever that is like it's an
anomaly man that's like it comes when it
comes right and you just got to be kind
of ready for it at the time but yeah I
mean my kids
and the worst thing about it is like
most of them probably are going to do
something
in entertainment I can see that
um so it's going to be tough it's going
to be tough for them it's going to be
tough for me
um but is it is a um
is a rocky road and it's a it's a tough
life and
but I will support them on the way what
is that so if I go if I was like that
what do you mean Rocky Road
Rocky Road meaning
you know for years I'd say only in the
last
10 years I've been financially stable
I've been acting all of my life
so not knowing sometimes how I was going
to feed my children
you know
what was going to happen next you know
just whether I was coming or going it
was just unstable
it's just unstable
um
and
the rejection is immense man like you
have to be really
tough in places when it comes to
80 of it is people just telling you no
this ain't gonna happen
you're not going to be able to do it
that's probably not going to work sorry
we don't want you not this time you were
great but you know what I'm saying it's
like that a lot of the time what people
get to see is it is that little ten
percent that works why don't you listen
to them
because I you know I spoke to someone
close to you and they told me they said
it's funny because earlier on un I'm not
gonna you weren't good at saying no to
people right because you said you have
these people please attendancies when I
spoke to people close to you they said
you're not good at hearing though either
as in someone says no to you it turns
into driving motivation
yeah well so why don't you listen to
them when all these people rejected you
and said no it's not going to work
you're not going to be in this movie or
this thing
it's kind of phone me a bit that is now
I'm thinking about who you spoke to
our team they say that you know you're
when you when someone says no to you
like you can't direct Ashley yeah you
know yeah yeah I I mean I mean
I have that but I'm not like I don't
have it in a way of like not in a rude
way but it's a motivation it does it
does yeah it does you know I stay when
I'm silent that's when people should
worry about me
because you know that's when I'm that's
what I'm thinking how to get around you
or how to do that thing that you
you said I can't do but
when someone says you can't do something
Ashley Walters you can't do that um how
does that feel
I don't like to I mean it doesn't feel
good it doesn't feel good
um especially when I know there's a way
especially when I know that I can
you know or I believe that okay
um I just prefer people to let me try
and if it fails then we can both agree
ah maybe it wasn't gonna work the way I
said it was and it would try a different
way or we don't revisit it
um
but I need the opportunity to
to bring how I feel to to the table and
yeah there have been times where I have
accepted
like it's not going to work or whatever
and I've regretted it after because
someone else has come and done it
um so I've I think I've become I've got
tougher with that over the years
and like the directing thing was one of
those things because I was told like you
know you can't direct it was my own show
that I created it was like now you
haven't got enough experience
like yeah I've watched some of the
directors you bought on here
that would be
I've got more experience than them I've
been I've been filming since I was like
seven
um
and to hear that is like you know it's a
kick in the teeth but
I went to you know I went to my business
partner after that I was like how do we
change this
and he was like well if you're serious
about it let's make a short film so
we're making a short film we might have
made a short film
got some money from Skye made this short
film
now that came out but I think actually
what happened in that process was
I liked it
I wasn't expecting to like directing so
much at that point it was about
you want experience I'm gonna get your
experience the best experience that you
could possibly have
um but actually throughout the process I
was like nah I like this man I enjoy
this process
um
and that's spiraled into me
do more yeah you said you talked about
Kingdom there um those students that
come to you that you Mentor that ask you
you know you said okay you can't
help them figure out how and when it's
going to happen but you can get them
prepared what is preparation for the
life you've lived
uh boy
um
well I make a I make a make a point of
always saying to them that if you've
come here trying to
um have my journey
you're gonna have to go to prison
you know lose your dad this that
whatever I told them all the negative
things that's happened because that's
what's made me so I was speaking to
Laura about this I was like look I can't
sit there and regret things that have
gone wrong because the truth is
if they had if those series of events
hadn't happened in the way they happened
on the days they happened I wouldn't be
sitting here now and I wouldn't have all
the great things that I have the kids
and this and that any little thing that
was different might have changed the
whole course of my life so I have to
accept that would you erase it would you
erase your dad passing going to prison
if there was a button in front of you
now no I couldn't no really I couldn't
well if I erased that then I might have
you know you know like that picture in
um in Back to the Future where he's like
he when he's not getting home or
something like and his brother starts to
fade away his sister starts to food it's
like if I raised that and brought my dad
back I might erase like four of my
children you know what I mean
actually Six Degrees of Separation you
might not be here
you never know right so
um no I couldn't I couldn't you have to
you have to live with it and I say this
to students it's like
so it's not about the journey it's about
how you use your journey and more
importantly
enjoying the journey
because I tell you now Stephen
it's not that enjoyable
where I am the the
best parts
of what I've achieved has been along the
way do you know what I mean the people
I've met the fun I've had doing things
the filming the memories this and that
or whatever actually the looking back
the challenges the people saying no so
what I had to do to get around that to
to get there and whatever it's actually
like I think when you clock the game
it's like oh
I'm not saying I've clocked it but I'm
saying I can see with the people that I
know that are like in that space where
they've kind of like there's not much
more to do
I think it's pretty boring
like I don't envy them
you know I don't envy them I may want
that Lambo but I don't envy where
they're at yeah yeah like you know that
space that they're in because there's
nothing much more to achieve it feels
like and I'm always like I have to have
a fix like I have to there has to be
something else like I'm very
can be very fickle like that like I can
be very focused and determined and
whatever and now like I'm doing this
Disney show and it's like I've shot the
Disney show and you know I'm editing but
I want it to end now
because I want to do another show so let
me play out this the scenario then
actually oh it's funny because as you
were saying that I was imagining someone
coming into your life and saying Ashley
you can't work for another two years you
just gotta sit at home but then I
remembered we we had that oh yeah the
pandemic yeah
how did you respond to that not well
sitting down is not not good for me
and I met my wife and I we can't
we can really go on holiday together
because what she wants to do is
read books she didn't get to read and
lie on sun lounges as a staff and I'm
like
I can't I can't live like that you know
I need to be doing something Something's
Gotta happen or be happening what if it
doesn't
for me it's uncomfortable it's
uncomfortable
what was the pandemic like in the first
couple of weeks sat at home alone
nothing can't go to the gym can't move
that was tough man that was tough like
taking away
my work from me and you know all of
those
all of that talk of me being that hard
love to be there more with the kids and
love to speak with my wife a lot more
whatever I realized now I didn't I I
weren't ready for it I weren't ready for
24 hours
with my family I wasn't used to it
I was always used to having a a release
or knowing that all right I'm gonna have
this week full-on at home but then next
week I'm going there I'm doing this I'm
doing that so there was always something
coming
um but
yeah it was a it was a struggle it it
opened up a lot of
um
a lot of things in our relationship
definitely I mean me and the missus you
know
um
we dealt with a lot
yeah we argued a lot throughout that
period of time it was like it was tough
it was a lot of things I didn't realize
irritated me
you know maybe about her and vice versa
you know she realized there's a lot of
things that
irritated her about me
um I guess because we're spending so
much time together
um if I was to fly on the wall in your
household at that time what would I what
Ashley would I have seen
um in that first couple of weeks yeah I
mean them depressed no they were sad
depressed yeah slightly yeah not worried
about I mean worried about the state of
the game worried about where we was I
mean I was one of those people that was
worriedless if I was am I gonna die do
you know what I mean that was like one
of my first thoughts like
did you have a breakdown
no I don't think I had a breakdown I
don't think I had a breakdown
I kind of know where you're yeah I mean
there was I had a moment I did have a
moment because I think
I think the pressure
the pressure of not it was it was hard
for me not to
not to have the choice to work
like it was hard for me not to have the
choice to do
certain things with my life
um
you know and um
yeah it took it it took its toll on me I
think I don't know I don't know if I'll
go as far as saying I had a breakdown
but I was very depressed I was very I
was very low
that's very low the reason I asked the
question is because someone who I think
you remind me of myself in many ways
where I think at some level I'm getting
some of myself esteem and some of my
self-worth from my work like by by being
successful in my work I think I feel
like I'm good in myself to some degree
it's probably an illusion but it makes
me feel that way it's probably the same
reason people buy Lamborghinis like it
is an illusion it's not going to fill
the void but it keeps me stable the
chaos keeps me stable
um and that's why I ask the questions
because it's one of those moments in our
lives where for someone like you where
your work is requires you to be on sets
mine I could still do for my laptop
right but for you you have to you have
to be on sets and all that stuff shut
down
we lock down
um so how does one because I'm guessing
here that you have a the same
relationship with your work on some
level where it makes you feel like
you're you're good yeah yeah like you're
enough yeah yeah I mean yeah
you're right you're hitting in the head
I mean I can't I can't
articulate it any better I guess that's
what happened it stripped a bit of me
away and I became
a civilian do you know what I mean it
was like
the the little part of me that made me
slightly different to to the people
around me had been taken away and I just
had to be Ashley
and just and actually sit with my
thoughts and deal with my flaws you know
you'd spend a long time distracting
yourself yeah 100 but it became evident
you know I was drinking a little bit too
much I smoked a lot
um you know I was biting my nails
I know this thing sounds stupid but to
me they were like
things I'd never been able to conquer
um and
became more apparent and evident where I
had nothing else to do sitting with
yourself and sitting with your thoughts
um
how's that for you it wasn't great
wasn't great at the time
um it's not I mean it's not always great
now
I'm a strong believer in that
um that voice in my head
is a mug
is not the right person for me to be
listening to really I don't believe
anyone should listen to voices in there
if I'm honest review
your head is
an extension of you right it's going to
be trying to like it's bias it's gonna
be telling you majority of the time
telling you the you want to hear
you know telling you stuff that's not
really happening but
you know trying to justify I I just
think you know why is he a mug that
voice in your head because um he's made
me make some terrible
decisions in my opinion
um
nowadays I try to uh
try to quiet and
the voice as much as possible Right
um
and connect
I think that's the most important thing
to do like if I can
if I'm sitting there thinking something
and I'm
no I don't know the answer something
maybe emotional something
it's like it makes more sense
to call my mom
want to call someone else you know I
mean or to speak to open up to my wife
about it and go what do you think about
this
and get someone else's perspective and
then make
decisions but I feel like
you know as emotional creatures as we
are as humans and we know a lot of a lot
of our the moves that we made that make
are based on
you know emotion anger fear you know
jealousy this that whatever
I just think you don't you should never
be making decisions
in that in that frame of mind you know
you should always
have someone to bounce something off but
I just don't think the voice in your
head I mean look in my in my opinion
um not my life the voice in my head has
never been
the best voices I've done some
some of the most stupid things
because I
said to myself it's the right thing to
do the personality of that voice
angry you said
yeah at times
look there's a there's there's a bit
there's a very vengeful
person somewhere inside of me I believe
we've all got that part of us you know
um
some of the things that go through my
head sometimes scare me
um
because I've been hurt
and I've been hurt and sometimes it
feels like the easiest thing to do is
hurt other people
but I'm just glad that I have the
ability
to control
those feelings and to and to think about
things and to kind of always
in in any how I can do it move forward
with with love and I have a clear
understanding that
you know I hurt people hurt people so if
you can if you can
if you can forgive
you know you're not you're doing
yourself a great favor first and
foremost if you can forgive if I can
forgive the people that hurt me right do
you forgive
everybody in your life I don't think
I've got around to forgiving everyone I
think I do carry a lot of a lot of
baggage but I'm working on it and I'm
working on it
um
and I'm working on making amends with
other people as well that
maybe don't forgive me
you know
um but what I do know is the people that
maybe I don't forgive they probably
forgotten who I am
you know but I'm sitting there thinking
about them
all the time and it's like so who's
really hurt
you're hurting yourself yeah that's the
nature isn't it of holding The Grudges
which we will do but it just it does not
no damage to the other person does it I
remember reading that quote one day and
it was like forgiving someone is like
letting a prisoner go and realizing and
doing so that you were the prisoner the
whole time like you can imagine opening
the gates to the jail and seeing
yourself run out yeah yeah
you said something quite curious there
which gave me a train of thought which
is sometimes I just want to speak to my
my wife
Danielle about it now speaking to your
wife
about it when I think about the other
points you've given me about not being
like grown up the way you did you've
emotion not coming naturally to you
I'm guessing you like me in some
respects where because I having
the kind of conversations that you need
to have to keep a woman in your life
don't come naturally to me either I
don't I still don't even call my parents
but I'd never call my parents mum or Dad
I just don't I didn't have that
affection growing up so if you don't
build the ability to communicate in a
certain way and to listen in a certain
way and show emotion in a certain way
you have no chance of being in a loving
committed relationship and getting all
the benefits of that what Journey have
you been on with like because it's funny
because I was thinking about that moment
where you look down together and the war
and much of the war is like
either one person or two people that
don't know how to communicate properly
yeah that was that was the war the war
was because Dan is like
she's the most loving
caring
tactile
to a person I've ever met in my life
like
to the point that when I first met her
um when I first met her no when we first
started dating I met her a long time
before we started dating right when we
first started dating
and I met her family
and I saw how a family
are together like
it made me sick
and I know now that was it was jealousy
because I just never
I love my mum and I know my mom loves me
but
we can go without talking for two weeks
we're not all over each other hugging do
you know what I mean like we just have
that really clean
relationship yeah yeah yeah yeah it's
like that like
um whereas Dan's family was completely
different I'd come home
you know to the to to the flat and
they'll all be lying on the sofa
together like lying in each other's laps
her her brothers her mum or whatever
then her dad would come out the kitchen
oh you were right Ash whatever it's just
like this whole about and in the
beginning I was like oh this is great
and on me like I I can't
I can't deal with this
this is weird you know that was my first
reaction this is weird
but um
I've learned to love it I become a part
of that family and I've learned to
realize that I want some of that
I wanted some of that you know I wanted
some of that doesn't make me love my
like family any less
but it's nice to get
some of that loving like some of that
you know physical
stuff
um so yeah that's where Dan comes from
so her side of the street is always like
I'm like
strap your boots up
something's gone wrong how do we solve
it
it's getting cracking and she wants to
be like
I want to talk about what went wrong
and I just can't understand like
sometimes we're like chocolate cheese
I'm just like
you want to sit there for an hour
telling me
how you feel how you feel and I don't
get that and I do have to like I need to
understand that more slowly but surely
like I'm getting there slowly but surely
I will
I'll come a step closer but I'm quite
you know I can be quite cold
as a husband and it doesn't that doesn't
work with her and she's a feisty woman
as well so she's not scared to tell you
it reminds me of myself and my
relationship but at the same time I know
that that's exactly what I need
because imagine if I was in a
relationship with someone like me
it would be all too one way so it's it's
almost like the other person is a
counterbalance and they're pulling aside
out of me that's actually beneficial for
me and I've seen it's beneficial for me
but I've given it willingly yeah yeah
you know yeah I'm kicking and screaming
okay I'll kick it and scream it she's
gonna be cracking up at this because I
don't even know whether she understands
that I know yeah yeah and so you know
but I do I get it and I struggle I
struggle with it but it's something that
I like you know on a daily basis I'm
just trying to
to give it more and you're right you're
completely right it's like
it helps me
and everything else that I'm doing kind
of bringing that side of me out do you
have any ideas why where that came from
I guess in one respect I think about it
in my own context I go I never learn
that no one ever told me that so it's
like alien Behavior but there is a part
of me that at a deep level I feel
uncomfortable with it like there's
something about when my girlfriend wants
to sit down for an hour and talk about
how she's feeling and the situation
we're in and stuff where I kind of get a
bit of an allergic reaction to it for um
and I kind of want to run and I kind of
just want to like what can I do to fix
it now like do you know I mean what can
I
press by say just to end it to fix it
because something about me feels
uncomfortable sharing my emotions
is it a defense thing in me you know I'm
saying like is it
or did I just not learn how to do it
or is it both I think it's I think
It's a combination of both like I I know
for me I definitely haven't learned
how how to to do that
um I don't know how to
I'll send it to a friend yesterday I was
like because he was like he was talking
about his wife and stuff and like she
she's working now and he's not working
and her job finishes at like two in the
morning she gets home about three and
then she wants to tell him
about her day whilst they're in bed
and he's like
he doesn't want to hear it because it
makes him feel like
he wants to go and beat up her boss
because you know the stuff that she's
telling him is like so he gets angry
about it and it's like starts to hold
resentments or whatever
but he keeps his mouth shut and I said
I can't do that
because what happens with me is I
I cannot just listen
you know I mean I've worked that out now
like I
it burns me to keep my mouth shut
because
I want to solve it for you
you're a fixer yeah I'm I'm a fixer I
feel like
that's what I need to do there's no
world
where I feel like you're telling me
something just for me to listen to it
like that's so crazy to me so I feel
like when you're telling me something
it's like all right so you want me to
you know you could be just saying I walk
down the street I fell over or whatever
and
you know that happened like last week or
whatever I'm like so should we book an
appointment do you need to should we
x-ray or like I need to do something and
I think the the key to
you know but that's my mum was has been
like that you know my mum was
shut up
how are you going to fix it uh so you
leave be quiet what you know what I mean
what's your next steps how are you going
to make this what you want to go there
write me a business plan
you know that's what I went through so
my life communication was for the
precursor to take some action yeah it
wasn't as a way to connect yeah it went
but let's sit down and just talk about
each other's days I was like
God that must be difficult for in terms
of like if I'm Danny your partner
she comes from that background she must
have taken her a lot of work to
understand you that it's not that you
don't love her
it's none of that because that's how
that must feel that coldness
um shall I be honest with you please
she's it feels like that to her now
yeah I I don't think she's
understands yeah I mean I'm I'm hoping
somewhere deep down she does because
she still
working with me have you told her though
have you told her this because I feel
like you probably find it easier to talk
to me than about the sort of person that
I am yeah all of the stuff you said like
you said today
yeah I mean we've done a lot of we do a
lot of work on it we're in counseling
you know we're in counseling
um every weekend
that we discuss it you know we talk
about it I don't think I think the issue
has been up until that point being in a
room where someone's slightly mediating
and helping to pull things out of you I
haven't felt comfortable enough to be
honest with her you know personally
um
but I think that's happening more now
and there's ways you know we're learning
ways to kind of
talk about issues that we have with each
other and you're a dad now so you've got
kids so you must think about how that
generational cycle you talked about with
your father then you is then gonna play
out in the Next Generation 100 yeah I
mean you know I carry a lot of fear for
that because
it hasn't gone great with all of my
children you know I don't have the
greatest relationship with all of my
kids especially my older ones
um you had you had those when you were
17 those kids at 17 18 years old yeah
um you went to jail at 19 years old so
you were absent for much of that period
yeah a lot of the first bits of their
life and then when I wasn't I was out
you know I was touring I was me doing
music and then I was acting and then
and then uh I mean if I'm honest with
you like the other other times like I
didn't I didn't care enough I didn't
you know I cared about them I loved my
children but
I didn't want
their
the adult responsibilities that came
with it and I didn't want to sacrifice
you know what I needed to do
um in order to give to them so for a
long period of time I was like
I was not I was not there in the way
that I should be and I know that I felt
I pay I'm slightly paying the price for
that now what is the price for them
is
I feel like there's a slight distance
between me and my older kids you know
there's a lack of trust
there
um
in feeling sometimes like
you know why didn't they come to me yeah
about that
yeah yeah you know yeah as for me to
that's a dad thing to it's a dad
conversations I have
um and as well I think I passed on my
my distant kind of
ways to them so
you know as much as like
when we're together we have an amazing
time and whatever but they don't call me
that much
you know
um I think it's the same with me and my
dad um I think uh we never really had a
close relationship
I think he probably had the same with
his father and I have the same with him
and my fear is how that translates
downwards to the Next Generation
Um but me and my father I wouldn't say
we're like he knows what's going on in
my life other than him listening to this
um there isn't like the phone call to
update him or anything so
I can relate
we've got an exciting new sponsor on
this podcast and I couldn't be more
excited to announce that we're now
working with Shopify and if there's one
tool that I use pretty much every single
day in my businesses that is certainly
Shopify I'm sure you've all heard about
Shopify but for some reason if you
haven't then Shopify is the Commerce
platform that is revolutionizing
millions of businesses worldwide whether
you're starting a side hustle a new
project with a friend or a global
business Shopify has you covered you
guys may know that we recently sold a
product on this platform called the
directio conversation cards which
featured questions from the guests in
these episodes and from start to finish
from launching that product we used
Shopify a total Game Changer makes life
incredibly incredibly smooth when it
relates to business and a tool that my
team have absolutely loved using which
is not always the case with technology
we couldn't have launched those
conversation cards without it and if you
guys haven't tried Shopify out for
yourself then I highly suggest you do
head to shopify.com Bartlett to take
your business to the next level today
and let me know how you get on that
shopify.com Bartlett let me know how you
get on thank you
top boy
yeah
crazy
it's crazy how that all played out
yeah yeah it's um
it's been an amazing journey you know
um
never never thought it would actually
when we're shooting the first season
I remember Kane looking at me and going
are they gonna put this
are they gonna put this on TV
because the subject matter you know some
of the things we was in the process it
was in we're shooting that scene where
we cut off um sway's finger in the
market in summer house and we was
literally looking at each other like a
channel four when I put this on TV
because we've never seen anything
on TV like it at the time but
you know cut from that to to where we
are today one of the biggest shows on
Netflix one of our biggest kind of
exports from the UK globally
and um
and you know people walking down the
street and people just
just hearing the Shane from every
angle of London
um it's crazy you know it changed my
life
changed my life
in hindsight you see what how big of an
opportunity it was but when someone
approached you with that
and that you saw the script and you saw
the role you'd be playing
in it you must not have had an idea that
it was gonna how did you think I didn't
do you know do you want to know why I
did it right because
because like literally months before I'd
said to my agent I said look
sick of just being a bad boy or just
like I can't keep on playing these same
roles like
so all I'm getting is after I've done
bullet boy I was just getting the same
scripts over and over again
you've been typecasting Typecast yeah
and I was like I'm not you know I've
done a bit of research I'd watched like
videos of other actors like black
American actors had been in the same
position and other people and I just
said look I have to be willing not to
work but I wanna be seen for other roles
like I want to be um and she she made me
know she was like look you may not get
any work for a while that means like no
money no this and that and I was like
so be it so that kind of that situation
came about but then the top boy script
came I remember not too long after
having that conversation
and for the first time for me reading
that script I was like wow
it felt like
like Good Fellas Scarface like all of
those shows those films that I've grown
up on that were very violent don't get
me wrong but behind it all there was
some structure and hierarchy it was the
first time that I'd seen black
organized crime not looking like a bunch
of
crazy
kids with hoodies just doing crazy
and not having no
you know with no sense it was like I
read characters that were human
that I finally was like I saw the people
behind the hood
I understood why they was doing what
they was doing or what their motivation
was for whether I agree to agreed with
it or not
um and I saw a character in The Shane
that was like aspired
for greater like he wanted
he wanted to change the face of the game
you know his initial intention was that
I can do this I'm gonna be the best at
it right but along the way I'm not gonna
hurt people
and I'm gonna feed everyone you know and
he wasn't like you know that
entrepreneurial kind of
it was like there within the script and
within the character and that was like
it that turned me so like literally
months after going I ain't doing no more
of these roles or whatever that script
coming I was like yeah I'm doing this
one though
um and that's what made me that's what
made me do it and there was no
hesitation
once I've read it no once I read I never
read any anything like it and you gotta
imagine I was reading loads of like when
I say everything I read was about
a black boy from inner city London that
was a drug dealer or was stabbing
someone or was shooting someone or
whatever is like loads of different like
iterations of the same character right
and when I read that
just stood out for me it was something
different I knew that there was
something different about it but I had
no idea that it would cut through the
way it did
Channel 4 just
didn't do a third series
all right they stopped um
at two series why was that I couldn't
figure I couldn't figure that out from
rummaging and reading
yeah I mean you're not the only one who
can't figure it out I mean I I think
over the years because I've been asked
that so much right
I've
learned or created scenarios that could
have happened oh okay right that I so I
don't know but
um
I do think there was a change of God
around the time that it was
the the third season should have been
commissioned yeah and I feel like when
that happens
um
ideas need to change in order for the
new person to feel like they're not
living off the coattails of what the
last person created that was successful
and usually it's the most successful
thing
that gets the ax then because there's
nothing that you know I can't take the
credit for this success
um so I feel like that might have been a
reason why or
maybe there just wasn't the
the space there at the time for them to
take it where it needed to go to the
next level but either way like we
discussed before
so good that it happened that way right
and it had that it's space to just not
be around and for people to want it back
for so many years before we got into the
new situation why did it come back in
your view
um
I think it timing wise when it was on
channel 4 it landed at such a pivotal
time just in London and for culture
and
you know coincided with
like your you know the real kind of
social media kind of push and all of
that stuff so
I think it was kind of cemented in
people's minds and I think it was like
the first of its kind really to you know
to do what it did so I think that that
having that fan base that key kind of
Niche sort of fan base cult fan base
kept it alive and then I think it
translated as well didn't it really
interestingly because a lot of the the
work at that time that was
one on the surface might think was
similar those stories of you know like
um of London and young black men and and
crime and all of that stuff they didn't
translate well globally
um they didn't cross over to like
different audiences and in the same way
that for some reason top boy just
crossed over and maybe it's because of
that complexity and that how thought
through the the plots and storylines and
characters are and it wasn't just
surface level like yeah a lot of
the other stuff was like stereotypical
surface level yeah it was it was there
were humans on the page yeah what
happened you walk away from the that you
root for these characters no matter what
they're doing like and that's because
they're 3D so you understand kind of
what's going on in their heads I think
we from the beginning we've always
Incorporated
um
what's going on outside of
that world like you know like the you
know I think in like season one on
channel four it was like Mental Health
you know there's a lot of other issues
that we were throwing in there like
um
you know with the little kid gem Soul
just kind of his family structure and
neglect from his parents and stuff like
that there was other things that kind of
we we talked about
um that you just didn't get in the other
shows and then we had I mean a big big a
big part of this puzzle was Yan
and demands
um
because he's a filmmaker right he's a
very cinematic
well-versed kind of filmmaker
um that knows how to get brilliant
performances out of people
um and remember
you know maybe nine percent of our cost
in that first season had never acted
before it's crazy so you needed someone
at the helm driving that
that had a clear understanding of how to
get great performances out of people
that hadn't had that much experience and
also shoot a beautiful TV show what do
you have to do to get the best
performance out of yourself do you have
any rituals or anything when you know
you're you're going on set is there
anything that you do to make to embody
the character
and to also just like get yourself in
the right frame of mind I have I have no
set of rules but
um I'm open to
being willing to do what it takes for
any given it's different every time you
know I've had characters where I've gone
into to play that I'm like I don't even
know if I can do this so I'm scared
so I would do everything like I'm not
eating
um
uh a mover don't speak to people that I
love like you know this was for a role
where I played like um an alcoholic like
crack addicted
like character
I stopped eating food you know I needed
to lose the weight I needed to feel
homeless so I kind of put myself in a
situation where I left my household and
I slept on a mattress in a one bedroom
kind of apartment thing and
like really pushed myself to the limits
because sometimes I like
I don't know how else I'm gonna do
something like just being able to act
isn't enough like I I need to feel it
like I need to you know and then there's
other times where I'm like actually I
don't need to do that much like I know
this
person like quite well
you know I need to be well versed on on
who that character is what their
backstory is so I can be free like when
I'm in the moment but
you know I I'm just I'm not one of these
guys that have like a set of rules and a
lot of the time I believe
less is more
you know I don't want to be over
prepared because then I feel like
there's no vulnerability you know
so it gets picked up by Netflix yeah and
it becomes a mega mega show one of their
their biggest shows of all time
um life changes for you hugely you go on
this journey for another two seasons on
Netflix and then you have one final
season on its way
how do you feel about that
it's a bittersweet
what's the bitter and what's this way
um
it's bitter that
some of the people on that show
that I've worked with the whole time
I've been doing it a lot of my family
you know
um
and actually I know
we've discussed this the type of person
that I am
I'm not going to see them that much
after right
it was our reason for
connection
um
and so what happens in this world you
move on you make other families you
develop other relationships so
I worry about like losing those
connections a bit
um you look sad as you say it I can see
the emotion in your face yeah it's
that's a bit of a thing for me it's like
remember you spend more time with these
people than you do with your actual
family you know you invest so much into
them and
so it's tough I mean and and I mean if
I'm honest with you the last
film in the last season
brought me and Kane probably even closer
than we've ever been kind of doing that
show because
we don't have the greatest time you know
fighting for what we we believed in
um and making it the best show that we
could make it be you know the best last
season for the fans like people don't
understand like we go hard
for that show we go hard to make sure
the scripts are right we go hard to make
sure other characters are being
represented in the way they should be
and storylines make sense on whatever
and
the truth is we faced a lot of
resistance this time around you know we
wasn't given the creative
input all the time that we desired and
this is like a common thing you know
this happens behind the scenes so this
is not me being a
in a grass or anything it's just like
it's the reality and sometimes you know
when there's seven execs eight execs not
everyone agrees and you've got a you
know you have to it's business you've
been there right
yeah so it was it was tough we went for
a tough experience we haven't been
through before
and that brought us closer together so
it's even harder knowing that this is
the last time because we developed
another level to our relationship where
I was like ah like as businessmen like
routine we're a team as well you know
what I mean
um
you know but the sweet thing about it if
you want to make you know end on a
positive is that
I've got my life back
you know it's I mean
to a certain extent the Shane is a very
popular character
um but when I say life back meaning I
can pursue other avenues
um you know
contractually I was tied down to that
show for for a long time you know that's
how it works and it'd be nice to to see
what else
is out there what else I can do where I
can take my career um
you scared a little bit I was just gonna
say that yeah so it's also scary because
that was um
is to get that stability in
in the acting game is very rare you know
usually if you want that sort of
stability with a show or whatever then
you have to you have to go and do a soap
hmm you know
um don't really get it from like drama
like that
um so
yeah it's been nice it's been good for
the family it's been good for me to
focus on
just being an artist
and enjoying what I do rather than
worrying about
mortgages and you know other stuff but
um
but yeah been a brilliant time did you
win the fight when I say the fight
you're in um
YouTuber fighting to have the show be
the way you want it to be
are you happy with how it's ended up
this final season
yeah
yeah I mean look
I wouldn't say necessarily that we won
um but I think the process of pushing
back
and fighting for what you're believing
always
without doing that I don't think we
would have got to where we got to I
think that you the push and pull that
happens within that process is what
makes the show
as good as it is you'll never be able to
see the impact it's had on young
people's lives all around the world and
perceptions shifting and all of these
things but
if you were to try and Define that what
is the impact you think the show has had
on culture on the world exactly that I
think
um
if I can Define it it will be
I had him I had a I had a meeting today
um
with like a Nigerian
a ligerian man that owns like a record
label a very famous record label right
and and production company
um and we sat down today and we was
talking and he was like
thank you
because it's made his job
a lot easier you know I had the same
conversation with Giggs who spends a lot
of time in the states and he was like
I don't have to explain myself anymore
when I go out there like around the
world they now because of the show they
kind of know where I come from you know
so
when it comes to marketing or whatever
you don't mean like announcing yourself
when you go somewhere into a new
territory or whatever
it's like there is an association for
them to to have and I think that's what
the show has done it's kind of taken us
from
cups of tea and biscuits and period
drama and maybe not in hill or whatever
you know stuff like that to
the rest of the world kind of
understanding that you know and there's
another side to what we we have and I
think
as a foundation as a way of opening the
door into the international market
accepting what we export
I think is really good I think now from
here we should push on into
telling black
stories
um
that don't necessarily have to be from
the same world as top boy you know they
should be black detectives there should
be black superheroes they should be
black you know we can the boundaries are
you know they're endless but I think
that it's open it's really opened the
door internationally for like people
trusting in in what we give them
um we have a closing tradition on this
podcast where the last guest leaves a
question in my diary for the next guest
not knowing who they're gonna leave it
for sick
the question in the diary left for you
is you've got one phone call left
to your children
what do you say to them
oh
[Music]
um
probably
[Laughter]
what I always say to my kids when I
leave the house don't eat my chicken
wings
[Laughter]
no I know on a real note it would be
it's I know it's cliche but it would be
that I love you you know and I think
that's
I didn't tell my dad that before he left
and
yeah we didn't you know we didn't have
those conversations and he didn't tell
me
that not in not using those words
and um
I'm assuming that this last conversation
would probably be the last time that I
see them so
I'd want them to know that
um
yeah
Yeah Ashley yes sir I can't wait I can't
wait for to see this last season
um I share that excitement with
everybody else that's listening right
now and thank you for creating a piece
of art over the years and fighting for
that piece of art with um to hope to
keep its integrity and to keep the
resonance that it's had with everybody
that's consumed it
um even when it's easier not to and I
can I understanding you I understand why
that fight was so important for you and
I'm exceptionally excited because of
your experiences and because of that
um that take on your art form that
you've developed over the last two three
decades
to watch your at your directing career
continue to play out I know you're
working on some incredible things at the
moment I know you've been working very
very hard on those things
um that's a conversation for another
time
but if it's anything like a lot of the
art you've created in your life and it
has that perspective that integrity and
that personality I think it's going to
have equal impact on the world that top
boy and all of the other projects you've
been involved in over the last two and a
half decades have had on people that is
a really really special thing and as I
say I'm I'm I couldn't it couldn't have
happened to a to a more deserving
individual in my opinion I I think it's
weird to have this feeling that I'm so
happy this you've had this in your life
and I'm so excited to see what plays out
for you I know it's going to be
something special because although you
talk about Talent I'm not quite
convinced that it's just
a a god-given talent alone I think
there's a ton of hard work dedication
perfectionism love craft dedication
kindness people skills I think there's a
lot of perspective I think there's a lot
of hardship there's a lot of rebounding
there's a lot of rejection that you've
had to overcome to get here um and
that's a very um a very admirable thing
that we can all be inspired by and that
we are so thank you Ashley thank you for
taking the time and thank you for your
generosity oh thank you man thank you
for having me being so good to be here
quick one you guys know that for years
now my office is quite literally been
everywhere on a plane in the back of my
car in a terminal in an airport or on a
train you name it I've probably worked
there ever since I started my first
business at 19 years old I've been
working on the move all I need is Wi-Fi
a desk and my headphones and I'm set and
one of the places that has always had my
back when I'm struggling to find an
office is wework I've been using wework
for years now whether it's in Manchester
London Manhattan or La wework is easy it
literally requires no thinking there's
no stress of finding the perfect working
location wework does it all for you
plenty of desk space meeting rooms
collaboration spaces drink snacks it's
all there so for your next remote
working trip away from the office or if
you want a new Fresh space to work in
then don't just work anywhere wework
might just be your answer you can get 25
off your first six months of wework all
access by using Code CEO works that's
one word CEO work and to redeem this
offer visit we.com
CEO works as you may know this podcast
is sponsored by huel if you're living
under a rock you might have missed that
and he all has such a wide range of
products now but there is a great way to
try all of them this is the huel best
seller bundle perfectly curated so that
you can try all of the favorite products
and decide which ones are your favorites
the best seller bundle has a range of
meals and bars including the iconic heel
Shaker the pot and a free t-shirt which
if you've got the free heel t-shirt
you'll understand how well that t-shirt
fits I'm not just saying that it really
really is phenomenal if you've heard me
talking about cure but haven't tried it
for some reason then this is a great
option for you to get to know the range
and find the product that works best for
you I've tried every single heel product
in the boardroom in the development
Laboratories and in my home and there's
a couple of products which have just
revolutionized my life because they meet
the requirements that I'm looking for so
if you're looking to try heal for the
first time and to get into it and to
join the hooligan fan only I highly
recommend you try this out
[Music]
foreign